README.md, before:

# Celstate

**Smart Asset Infrastructure for AI Agents** — MCP server providing "Layout-Ready Assets" (pixels + logic) for implementing "Software Whimsy".

## Vision

AI Coding Agents are currently "Visually Illiterate." If an Agent generates a decorative frame with a transparent hole, it doesn't know where the hole is. This tool solves that by returning JSON with Image URLs **and** precise layout measurements (insets, bounding boxes, masking data).

See [docs/VISION.md](docs/VISION.md) for the full product vision.

## Core Concepts

1. **Jobs**: Generation is asynchronous. Create a job, poll for status, retrieve the "Smart Asset" response.
2. **Smart Assets**:
   - **Pixels**: "Difference Matting" (dual-pass white/black) for perfect semi-transparency.
   - **Logic**: CV-based analysis returns `content_zones`, `slice_insets`, `shape_hint`, and mask companions.
3. **Storage**: Assets stored in `var/jobs/{job_id}/outputs` during generation, archived to `assets/archive/`.

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.12+
- [UV](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
- Environment variables:
  - `VERTEX_API_KEY`
  - `VERTEX_PROJECT_ID`
  - `VERTEX_LOCATION`
  - `HF_TOKEN` (for Creative Interpreter layer)

### Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run MCP server (local stdio mode)
uv run python src/mcp_server.py

# Run MCP server (SSE mode for remote agents)
uvicorn src.mcp_server:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

## MCP Interface

This is an **MCP-first** project. The primary interface is the Model Context Protocol server.

### Deployment

- **Production URL:** `https://celstate.onrender.com`
- **MCP Endpoint:** `https://celstate.onrender.com/sse`

### Tools

#### `generate_asset`

Creates a UI asset generation job.

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `prompt` | string | **Shape & Subject ONLY** (e.g. "A pill-shaped container"). |
| `asset_type` | string | `container`, `icon`, or `texture`. |
| `style_context` | string | **Creative Direction** (e.g. "Ghibli style, vines"). |
| `layout_intent` | string? | Optional `row` / `column` / `auto` hint. |

**Returns:** Job object with `id`, `status`, and `estimated_duration_seconds` (for polling timers).

#### `get_asset`

Retrieves job status and the "Smart Asset" response.

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `job_id` | string | UUID from `generate_asset` |

**Returns:** Job object. When `status == "succeeded"`, includes:
- `component.manifest.intrinsics`:
    - `content_zones`: Padding insets (px + %) for structural bounds.
    - `safe_zone`: **STRICT** obstruction-free area (for buttons/inputs).
    - `layout_bounds`: **LOOSE** visual container area (for centering).
    - `shape_hint`: Shape classification (`type`, `corner_radius`).
    - `mask_asset`: URL to mask image (if organic shape).
- `component.assets` — Dict of filename → download URL (TEMPORARY!)
- `component.telemetry` — Generation metrics.

#### `save_asset`

**Infrastructure Action** to reliably save a generated asset to your project.

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `job_id` | string | UUID of completed job. |
| `target_path` | string | Absolute path to save file (e.g. `/app/public/asset.png`). |

**Returns:** Success status and file size.

### Connecting

Use an MCP client to connect:
- **Cursor/Claude Desktop (local)**: Run `python src/mcp_server.py` (stdio)
- **Remote agents**: Connect to `https://celstate.onrender.com/sse`

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── mcp_server.py            # MCP server (primary interface)
└── engine/
    └── core/
        ├── generator.py     # Gemini/Vertex image generation
        ├── processor.py     # Difference matting pipeline
        ├── analyzer.py      # CV layout analysis (Alpha Scanning)
        ├── orchestrator.py  # Job lifecycle management
        ├── job_store.py     # JSON job persistence
        └── archiver.py      # Asset archiving
var/
├── jobs/                    # Active job storage
docs/
├── VISION.md                # Product vision
assets/
├── archive/                 # Permanent asset gallery
```

## Local Debugging

```bash
# Check job state directly on disk
cat var/jobs/{job_id}/job.json

# View intermediate generation passes
ls var/jobs/{job_id}/studio/
```

## Development

```bash
# Lint
uv run lint

# Format
uv run format

# Test
uv run test
```

---

Commit message:

some hardening and a better algorithm for detecting safe zone

README.md, after:

# Celstate

**Smart Asset Infrastructure for AI Agents** — MCP server providing "Layout-Ready Assets" (pixels + logic) for implementing "Software Whimsy".

## Vision

AI Coding Agents are currently "Visually Illiterate." If an Agent generates a decorative frame with a transparent hole, it doesn't know where the hole is. This tool solves that by returning JSON with Image URLs **and** precise layout measurements (insets, bounding boxes, masking data).

See [docs/VISION.md](docs/VISION.md) for the full product vision.

## Why Celstate?

Most design tools treat "Safe Zones" as absolute mathematical voids. For organic styles (watercolor, hand-drawn), this fails: a single stray paint splatter or a hanging vine will "break" the rectangle, forcing content into a cramped, off-center position.

Celstate implements **Al-First Layout Analysis**:
- **The "Morphological Squint"**: Instead of strict LIR, we apply morphological operations to "squint" at the image. Small artistic noise (vines, splatters) are filtered out *before* calculation.
- **Perceptual Accuracy > Mathematical Precision**: We optimize for the *visually largest* void. It is better to have an avatar slightly overlapped by a semi-transparent vine (making the UI look "alive") than to have it undersized and perfectly "safe."

## Core Concepts

1. **Jobs**: Generation is asynchronous. Create a job, poll for status, retrieve the "Smart Asset" response.
2. **Smart Assets**:
   - **Pixels**: "Difference Matting" (dual-pass white/black) for perfect semi-transparency.
   - **Logic**: CV-based analysis returns `content_zones`, `slice_insets`, `shape_hint`, and mask companions.
   - **Morphological Safe Zone**: Perceptual LIR that ignores "artistic noise" (vines, splatters).
   - **Fat Response (Snippets)**: Returns ready-to-use code for CSS, Tailwind, React Native, Swift, and Kotlin/Compose.
   - **Optical Sizing**: Prompts adapt to target size (Small = Bold, Large = Intricate).
3. **Storage**: Assets stored in `var/jobs/{job_id}/outputs` during generation, archived to `assets/archive/`.

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.12+
- [UV](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
- Environment variables:
  - `VERTEX_API_KEY`
  - `VERTEX_PROJECT_ID`
  - `VERTEX_LOCATION`
  - `HF_TOKEN` (for Creative Interpreter layer)

### Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run MCP server (local stdio mode)
uv run python src/mcp_server.py

# Run MCP server (SSE mode for remote agents)
uvicorn src.mcp_server:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

## MCP Interface

This is an **MCP-first** project. The primary interface is the Model Context Protocol server.

### Deployment

- **Production URL:** `https://celstate.onrender.com`
- **MCP Endpoint:** `https://celstate.onrender.com/sse`

### Tools

#### `generate_asset`

Creates a UI asset generation job.

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `prompt` | string | **Shape & Subject ONLY** (e.g. "A pill-shaped container"). |
| `asset_type` | string | `container`, `icon`, or `texture`. |
| `style_context` | string | **Creative Direction** (e.g. "Ghibli style, vines"). |
| `layout_intent` | string? | Optional `row` / `column` / `auto` hint. |
| `render_size_hint` | int? | **Optical Sizing** (e.g. 48 for `w-12`). Controls detail level. |

**Returns:** Job object with `id`, `status`, and `estimated_duration_seconds` (for polling timers).

#### `get_asset`

Retrieves job status and the "Smart Asset" response.

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `job_id` | string | UUID from `generate_asset` |

**Returns:** Job object. When `status == "succeeded"`, includes:
- `component.manifest.intrinsics`:
    - `content_zones`: Padding insets (px + %) for structural bounds.
    - `safe_zone`: **Robust** LIR area (ignores artistic noise/vines via Morphological Squint).
    - `layout_bounds`: **LOOSE** visual container area (for centering).
    - `shape_hint`: Shape classification (`type`, `corner_radius`).
    - `mask_asset`: URL to mask image (if organic shape).
    - `snippets`: **Code snippets** for CSS, Tailwind, React Native, Swift, and Kotlin.
- `component.assets` — Dict of filename → download URL (TEMPORARY!)
- `component.telemetry` — Generation metrics.

#### `save_asset`

**Infrastructure Action** to reliably save a generated asset to your project.

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `job_id` | string | UUID of completed job. |
| `target_path` | string | Absolute path to save file (e.g. `/app/public/asset.png`). |

**Returns:** Success status and file size.

### Connecting

Use an MCP client to connect:
- **Cursor/Claude Desktop (local)**: Run `python src/mcp_server.py` (stdio)
- **Remote agents**: Connect to `https://celstate.onrender.com/sse`

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── mcp_server.py            # MCP server (primary interface)
└── engine/
    └── core/
        ├── generator.py     # Gemini/Vertex image generation
        ├── processor.py     # Difference matting pipeline
        ├── analyzer.py      # CV layout analysis (Alpha Scanning)
        ├── snippets.py      # Platform-agnostic code snippet logic
        ├── orchestrator.py  # Job lifecycle management
        ├── job_store.py     # JSON job persistence
        └── archiver.py      # Asset archiving
var/
├── jobs/                    # Active job storage
docs/
├── VISION.md                # Product vision
assets/
├── archive/                 # Permanent asset gallery
```

## Local Debugging

```bash
# Check job state directly on disk
cat var/jobs/{job_id}/job.json

# View intermediate generation passes
ls var/jobs/{job_id}/studio/
```

## Development

```bash
# Lint
uv run lint

# Format
uv run format

# Test
uv run test
```

---
